# dyson-sphere

### 2023-09-27 4:30 - initial thoughts on mass-scale production (on the galactic scale)

this game is notably 1st person perspective -- which is really jarring for me, because I exist in any time or space I want to be in (cause it's all tuning).
  I can tune into any thing in any place in time because I'm tuning in to my concept of it.
    that means I define what it is that I'm perceiving (ie, where the borders/barriers are drawn). I say (example) I'm perceing feeling this thing, and it is in the container of whatever shape it's in -- like a crab has the shape of a crab, and a fish, a fish. each shaped by where my brain interprets the barrier between differently rotating surfaces -- like a medium (for exameple troposphere, ionosphere).
    so if I want to feel a plant, I can feel the plant -- or I can feel the Plant (which would be like the species or grouping of similarly vibrating things, share a relative centre -- like a star cluster or gas cloud) and that Plant has a feeling to them, just like a human does.. I can then tune into the Plant -- and feel its perspective/relation in comparison to another thing.
      there are levels to the the perception -- where one could be physical pain/hunger/etc, versus mental pain/hunger/etc -- but around the time I get to conceptual level of perception, there's not really any pain or strife or any of that anymore. everything feels pretty good there and I can just get ideas out of the way they feel (and are talking) that is far beyond their capacity to receive it. it would be a very very high frequency concept that I'm able to perceive conceptually.
        the phyiscal+conceptual realm has lower and lower frequency cOnecepts that eventually become the things that we call atoms (which resonate with the earth). it's all just a vibration that manifests itself in many invisible ways before finally turning into a lump of atoms.
      one level is in the most visceral of physical, and the other is the gentle motion of the emotional world, where concepts exist in clusters and groups (not restrained by dimensions) -- and so fourth. any perception into any of these concepts are translated in the relative-brain as a comparison (always against ME).
        the ME is the physical vibration compiled/manifested DNA -- of a conceptual framework, entirely mental. anyway...
  I think at this point I want to remind myself of the notion that *I* set the boundaries/barriers between things. my brain (has in a very tiny frequencies) an inner image of all of my world around me, and where these different barriers coming from a sort of flowing thing -- probably that chi stuff cause it's like a fluid --
    the way that I define this is that the very dark star that is earth has a bunch of stuff coming out of it. that energy hits earth's (dense) physical plane and gets converted into a sort of structural energy -- something like the mineral kingdom, and then bubbles up to the next more advanced structure, up through all forms of DNA, etc. I've heard that stuff (the 1st ray energy) is coming from the planet. the chi stuff is coming from the sun.
      the way I look at this is (not 100% sure) that the sun is outputting 2nd ray energy -- and I suppose that's the case because the sun has a whole lot of attraction vorticies in on itself which sends out a duality because it's a thing that escaped the attraction of another, and so has a sort of twist to it. the sun twists a lot more than say an incandescent bulb or even carbon lamp. that twisting suggests to me that it's 2nd ray.
      it *could* also be saturn (4th ray energy) -- but that's the earth, not the sun.
      the way that chi (2) is captured by our planet passes through a massively symbolic matrix of everything down to physical, and in the process of passing through it, it creates a resonant frequency in the conceptual realm, because I've noticed that the sun kinda feels the way that I think about reality (sometimes) -- so there's at least a strong correlation. at any rate, the way to interacting with anything in space and time can be done using concepts. I just tune into (receive) the information I want to about a thing by translating that concept into a thought -- and if the symbolic thought translation still resonates with the concept, then the translation is good. any emotional dissonance I experience with my translation means the translation isn't very accurate (protocol error, but also means I'm overreacting too).
        learning how to see things in a way which pleases/displeases/upsets/excites, is eventually the new reality we'll live in: each one of us with our own slant on reality: I see that same idea a bit differently than they do (and they're of course the ones that are doing wrong). the benefit to that form of perception means that everyone will be able to feel as good or as bad as they want to on any set of concepts, and adjust as they see fit. the side benefit is that anyone can learn to feel a range of good or bad on any topic.
  as chi-2 comes nearer and nearer to earth, I notice that it turns into a lot of concepts, all the way down to the physical where it turns into atoms and stuff. it's like raining minerals.
  another interesting one is what I'd suppose is like the ionosphere where those are like a very high density of very high frequency concepts -- a sort of fluid of ideals and symbolic desiress.
  each of these layers that the sun's energy gets slowed down into resonant wave patterns (cause remember these waves are 3d), it produces all sorts of interesting stuff.
  another very interesting one is perhaps where the earth and the sun's energies collide; a tension. coming in from the sun is a 2nd ray framework of all of our concepts and ideals mixed into one (like every creature, or being's the-manual) -- and that meets with the earth's pure-desire energy, meaning that higher frequency stuff (ie, 1st ray) is *always* more attractive.
    we're literally living in a constant tension where there is an attractive force (the centre of earth), and there's another emissive force coming from the sun.
    so now, from earth/saturn's perspecctive, the structural perspective comes from the sun (looking-in), and the conceptual perspeccive comes from the centre of the earth (looking-out).
    so it looks then that the earth (a highly attractive being) is just attracting the structure that it needs directly from the sun. earth's saturnian-system sets the limits to ensure that earth doesn't expand or contract too much.

### 2023-10-25 00:42 - dyson sphere prelude/prolog

I know there's a new update for dyson sphere where there's combat, but I haven't played it yet with combat. right now, I'm this one robot "mecha" that's on a barren planet. there is vegetation, but no real animal life or higher. this is the same principle as another game I've been playing called "immortal mayor"; it's the same concept where I start out in a circular world where there's nothing more than resources laying on the ground to do something with. that game starts out in pretty primitive times, and it does the same thing as dyson-sphere.
  anyway, I've been playing dyson a lot lately, and there's so many features that from captain that I would really enjoy having. I decided that I would just try it out, instead of being sad that I'm stuck inside of a body, and I can't just look everywhere effortlessly -- though I really feel like changing the view from mecha into the planet's view is sorta a captains' view -- a future upgrade when the robot gains alliance with the planet, it opens up new capabilities (researches in tech ttree) that allow for a planetary wireless network, where some entities contribute to the network, and utilise what's available; kinda like captain. it'd be cool if the alliance with the planet wasn't so much as a technological accomplishment, but a sort of "friendship" with the planet. after all, the robots are still coming to live on a conscious being, so eventually ... well, this is just an idea that I've been developing the last few days, but I don't know how I'd do it yet, so not sure... still in the oven.
anyway, the idea that I've been thinking about would be a game (like immortal mayor) that essentially takes a bunch of (able to repicate/reproduce/alter) automatons in an environment that simply has resources. for me, dyson is like immortal in the sense that I could imagine that if I were to get to the "end" of immortal, it'd essentially tranition into a sort of thing where they've become so mechanised, they (you could call them evengelists) just go to other uninhabited planets in new galaxies they're creating, and just building stuff. dyson is the narrative the moment mecha hits the ground, but there's a lot before that which brought dyson to an empty planet with the desire to build stuff... he's got a goal in mind. he knows essentially his tech road into the future, where the entire galaxy is conquered... I say conquered, but I don't mean winning the battle, I mean level of consciousness at the end. a warrior with very little consciousness could win a battle and "win" the game, but ultimately, it's not about "winning"; it's about consciousness. whomever has the most of it, "wins" that game, and
  there's a pretty big limit on the amount of consciousness that it seems I am allowed to have. like there's an entire network out there just trying to keep me unconsciousx; and I'm all for it. I dont' want to be cOnscious yet. just how I am, I'm doing just fine. I say bolt me into reality, because I'll just keep improving att the rate I'm going. I don't want to be a perfect reflection of myself, but an always improving version of m/self.
  all this genetics stuff that I"m so hyped up about, it's not at all to liberate me or to give me super powers, but to simply become the person I want to be,-- but the thing is I don't really want to go the shortcut with technology. I feel pinned in what's expected of me, and I'm totally the guy that's like: yeah, let's just chill out cause I want to get there, essentially as slow ass possible. I'm really in no rush at all, and I'll even admit a personal preference is that the genetics will ensure that I'm 100% pure/perfect (ie, 100% unavoidable), that I am *actually what I think I am*.

so anyway, consider now this idea of a bunch of automatons in the wilderness: they essentially have a protocol for getting them to do things and get things in responce. a religion is a way of creating a sort of narrated protocol that lives on top of their programming, so what the game is all about, is learning how to interface with others. the different religions, ideas, technologies, poems, plays, etc., all create a sort of protocol for engagagement. the syntax of their interactions are kind of like insecets, how they behave according to this like "hive mind" which is like the default programming of these automatons. so in a sense, they're all just interacting with their hive mind, and they think it's something big: a reflection, never able to make the first attack. so they think the diety has got to be good because it never attacks, so they put idea into their mind through narrative, perceived through the cultural lens -- so they'll see something like a dragon, when in fact, itt's just a conceptual presence, getting manifested any way they see, into their mind. these become the "dieties", because they don't know how to deal with a mirror of theirselves. they say: this reflection of me is so awesome, so it's prolly just some dragon or something.
  of course, the culture is there to build up a mechanical/symbolic entrance into reality. IMO, this is where I started, so I feel pretty confident that everyone else experiences life through the mix of different cultures they've been exposed to. it's a good thing, and for this I'm actually proud of of my american upbringing, because it (in combination with a number of formidable influences) shaped my capacity to reason about life. like, I learned that when I go to the store I have to look at price per weight, etc, look for the best for the money, ettc. a number of different people having their own (I call it) conceptual-framework, in which they perceive reality. everything is associated with another in a sense of how it feels, and so each culture is a sort of interface; one to another. they all interact with each other and have a bunch of expectations, which is a symbolic system, mixed with desire. if the desire fits in the system, it's ok to be expressed; however, if not, then the desire needs to be squelched in the from of shame and gilt, and all that other crap those dumb narrators want to include, to make the story more intrieging. anyway, it's all a load of crap that cultures dump on to their members, because the narrators are all seeing a mirror of theirselves. *they* want to have that experience, not I. be a mirror, and know everything everyone else sees in me, they're only seeing a mirror of theirself.
    that's what I'm trying to say: there's this whole web of interconnected cultures, but I'm just like not really so much a part of all that. like God, the web of interconnected cultures's out there, and it's rheally real. I float a safe distance from that. there is no way I want to get too close to that. like, there will be a whole lot of alternate me's (I'm sure) that jump into that cultural syntax and symbolic system for interacting
      (mostly because (I believe) the vulcans' didn't want to interact with their reflection; well, jokes, on them, I know.)
      in fact, I would like to say that history, I think is actually the story that's being told about all of these cultures, because they didn't like interacting with the women that were good reflectors of them -- cause if they're bad-guys, then she will be too; solution: narrate her, and tell her/him them how to act. they just learn how to live within the protocol of the society. I was like that myself, actually. anyway, (I gatta go prolly... brb)
