# leviathans-fantasy

### 2023-10-30 03:34 - the multiverse concept

I like this game's concept a lot, because it has these universes/leviathans that all have a sort of inner universe, but that inner universe is a lot like a lot other inner universe (ie, other leviathans), and they all live in a universe together: a bunch of leviathans floating around together in a real environment. there's like crazy random stuff going on in the background too, so it's like these universes living in a place where there are giant guys with axes (it's really trippy like that).
    so, what I take away from this game is that it's sort of a reflection of us: we're all these different universes all living in a universe, and we share each others zones in the form of characters. I (the leviathan) am mars, and so what I do is I go looking for these vulcans/adventurers, which are nothing more than a manifesation of a narrative into physical format: mars and aphrodite. the thing is though, that mars (leviathan) is attracted to (ie, is a species) of these different adventurers, and mars' narrative is what's manifesting these vulcans. mars really likes aphrodite, because he loves himself, so he loves aphrodite -- yet, he insists on writing these vulcans/mercuries into his narratives (a few other archetypes as well) -- and so he (mars/leviathan) is just manifesting his own narrative desires. thing is, they don't really ever show up exactly as narrated is because it's impossible. the ideal mars can only manifest under the most optimal conditions, and so good conditions are fought over. opps.
I'm having a lot of fun, because I noticed that "randomly" a new girl will show up, and she'll be like awesome, and I'm just like add another adventurers' dormitory, and there's more space. anyway, the cool thing is they all have unique appearances, and they're not really human, but kinda are. I can't fully grasp the idea in 3d yet, so I guess I'll have to look harder. oh, you know what would be a cool feature to add, is a "take a rest" amount to the different villagers/adventurers, so that they have some thime to think and recall some of their past adventures. it's a good way for their memory/imagination to catch them off-guard, because they'll manifest some crazy monsters that they most fear, if they're not in a good mood. in either case, they gonna create a monster. for some it'll be a much higher level, and for som it'll  be jusst a dinky one. for others, it'll be just the perfect match for them.

anyway, the interface has been fascinating to me because it's not immediately obvious what the interface is trying to accomplish. I've been playing the game, in a sense, to kinda get into the heads of the process -- because I noticed that the chinese by default, create interfaces that are like how it would be programmed, so the interface represents more of a programming idea in 3d/2d space, which is interactive. it's just a matter of making more intuitive ways (ie, common-practise) of similar symbolic things; so I antropromorphise, or if the target audience is a dog, I become a dog and write the interface from its' standpoint. I just try to perceive what is the desired way to represent the functions/variabwles in an symbolically relatable way (2nd ray perspective). I turn the desire of the user (myself) into a process that has easy to adjust parametersa. (brb)
