# volcano-princess

### 2023-09-27 20:31 - emotion and narrative

this game relates the EMO+ attribute tto listening to stories, which means that we have a different definition of emotion. I would want my daughter to have an ability (sensitivity) to feel her emotions, and properly triangulate(?) them.
  the way it works for me is that *all* things have a feeling that I can feel in relationship to them. this is 2nd ray perception, because I *feel* a certain way about everything I see, feel, exprience, think about, put my percetion inside of, consider, etc -- which means that I can always feel *something* (even if it's very slight, and would otherwise be invisible) -- and also my ability to (viscerally) *feel* it is one way, and my ability to know/guess/intuit what the feeling is, is also another aspect (same result): one is a data connection, and the other more like sound/video/sensation -- and for me in both cases I don't actually *feel* anything -- it's just kinda there [I'm going to think of a better way of explaining how to interact with this invisible world].
  anything that I want to know about can be tuned into and I can always feel what I desire to feel about it -- and so for me the problem is figuring out which of it is *my* (symbolic) desire established in the brain from social, institution, home, ..., *and* narrative.
    what I'm saying here is that my ablity to feel something is driven by my desire, which means I'll always feel what I *want* to feel. what I want to feel, is again a cOncept, which means that it goes into an interpretation process afterward...
    1. I desire to know what something feels like.
    2. I feel whatever it is that I want it to feel like.
    3. the feeling received is then interpretted by my mind.
    ---
    in 2 and 3, what I feel can be programmed by some narrative that tells my what is important or valuable or worthwhile (etc). that narrative says, "these romantic things are really great, and you want them", and so I hear things that resonates with the narrative ideals.
      as an example of this, during my time stuck in the network (I'm still there), I would have often times a lot of graphic thoughts and ideas pass through my mind, which I must confess would *never* have crossed my mind previously. it took me a long time to figure out why all of a sudden I've suddenly becom5 so obsessed with little girls. I mean I think they're great and they feel really good and stuff, but it felt like it wasn't really me, and I've since discovered that it was not, in fact me. turns out the guys that run a lot of the network are really into that stuff, and because they're also attractive (conditionally, not cause of low resistance like me), they think that I am exactly like I am.
        common problem, because I do it all the time: I just assume right off that everyone else sees things just as I do; they obviously don't, though.
      so then after I figured that out, it's important to know that I'm still resonant with those ideas and concepts, even if they didn't originate in m5.
    the nice thing about narrative is that it produces desire to go a specific way (a vector), yet pure-desire doesn't have a direction to it. everything is percEived as having a closeness or resonance to me. all things have this pure-desire (centre) form of perception, but it's often covered over with narrative.
    sensitivity to emotion is what makes the pure-desire perspective possible, because without the ability to feel all things in relation to me, there's no way I would know where *I* am.
    resume: in order to feel the perspective of pure-desire, sensitivity to emotion is most important, because the world is *felt* or *known about*.
    there is somewhat of a symbiotic relationship between the two though, because when I go to feel anyone, what comes out is always my desire expressed through them, through my conceptual-framework,-- meaning that I often translate that desire as something quite outlandish or hilarious -- mostly because the most desired ttranslation of the idea is often situational humour or something clever, funnyy, or something catchy that'll stick into someone's head. I have very low resistance (and getting lower), so at the moment, almost any thought can pop into my head, and it would get manifested.
      you know, there's a good likelihood that the predicament that I'm in, is precisely for everyone's protection -- because I'm really sensitive, so I pick up thoughts really easily, and if I were to pick up some bad ideas, they would either manifest in myself or quickly into reality if I were to give attention to them. like if someone was scared that something was scary in the bushes, *there would be* the manifestion of their greatest fear. like, I'd see it too and think it's real, causing it come into existence. I've seen similar things happen to people all around me, especially when I'm on drugs (happens a lot less seldom when I'm sober).
      you know what I find totally nuts here is that people are scared of their greatest desires manifesting into their reality -- and it's m6stly because they don't think they're (good enough?) -- as if conditions aren't right or whatever they think they need to have happen -- and the problem is because of the narrative. my personal supposition on this is that romance and narrative is at fault here, because it says that in order to get this desirable thing (marketed by the cutscenes of the story), the protagonist has to do a number of things in order to be worthy or something. -- which means almost nobody has measured up for it. tttttttttttttttttt by for now.

#### 2023-09-27 21:15 - I still don't know what I want

it sounds strange as a title. pure-desire (which is where I'm going) don'tt really *ever* know what (monad) really wants, either -- because what any wants is always evolving, and never stops, so pure desire can never be an absolute, but is something like a trajectory instead... a trend or thrust in a direction... therefore, the way to do it is to just go toward wanted (instead of away from unwantod) and for me that's really easy. so just like a few sorta days and hours have gone by when starting to think of the implications -- as I'd never ever considered even what it like for a chinese person to think like, what their myths, narratives, and all of that is all about. it may as well be chinese to me.
  you know, it's such an unknown thing to me, that you cOuld potentially just tell me a bunch of madeup stuff and I'd totally believe it.
    you know, I noticed that I don't like to speak in you. this is a huge obstacle that is starting to appear in me. the way it manifests in this game, is I don't really have a desire to direct any single person in any way at all. (that's a time for another discussion on amazing-cultivation.) I cannot really put my head into this game because I don't really have much that I would even do. for me, the now is not like this at all.
    imagine for a moment that I were with *anyone*, I don't have any objectives at all. I just do things in responce to other things. if there's a thing that catches my attention, it comes out of me mouth, or I look at it. there's little difference between my thoughts and another person (kinda, prolly not how you think), where I can interact with people on a conceptual level, and sometimes I feel their thoughts. I can't feel the thoughts of my concepts; so, people are just stronger emitters than my mental concepts, still.
    I'm still going to have to figure out a new way to talk to "you" and still maintain my *I* personality.
  there's kind of even a bit of intrigue to this idea where I just get kinda born into a "noble-lie", and my whole world is dictated to me. lol. let m5 explain. (1st foot ready)
  (nvm, brb)

### 2023-09-28 16:00 - let the hilarity ensue

I decided to join the discord server yesterday but I was far too stoned to make any meaningful conversation. today I decided to post my bug report, but I noticed that I have a very old version of the game installed (downloading the new one now). obviously, I didn't pay for the game or get it on steam, but that's no problem, because I mirror the general chinese way of doing things which is to get the thing illegally; it's totally fine.
  when I joined the server, it asked m5 for a name that I will call myself as. I considered a number of different options, but couldn't find an option that fit with me very well, because -- well, for example, let's say I had've called myself "kenny" -- well then I'd have to behave like kenny -- and I don't really want to do that. it's also not accurate of how I've been playing the game. I've been playing the game like "anatau" (or perhaps cupid/eros), but I wanted a female identity -- because while the game I'm supposedly the father, because I have to play the game symbolically, every way that I treat the daughter, is the way that I would treat myself -- which means that I'm the girl (rose) -- which I (as the father) am symbolically treating as if she's anatau.
    in an esoteric sense, you could consider wood (the father) in this game to be symbolic of enki, and the daughter to be symbolic of rose -- and that's because enki and anu created the species from the beginning and so the girl (rose) was the product of their labours (top-down) but now we're on the return back to source, which means that things are reversed now: men become women and women become men (ie, the physical outside doesn't matter anymore). what that's meaning is that men become the reflective ones and the women becom5 the narrative ones (like m5n used to be).
    therefore, I consider rose a child of desire (but of the female body), much like the mars became the birthing point of many aryans who would (eventually) come into the perspective of cupid/eros (wood). in the same way, rose is the prototype girl (just like mars was for eros) with lots of a way for her to go (she's got to figure it out herself) how to become anatau. therefore, she needs to be treated like anatau to produce anatau.
  anatau produces anatau. she's self-made in the sense that nobody else can tell her or instruct her how to do things. she can ask a whole lot of questions about things and I (wood) can give insight into things, but she ultimately has to figure it all out for herself (no hand-holding).

unfortunately, because of the way the game is structured, I'm forced to present anatau's perspective with symbol. for anatau, I cannot give her lessons and teach her things, as she's ultimately got to figure it out for herself -- which means that the only option that I have (when playing this game, not IRL) is only to play and give her affection, and send her off to be with her friends as soon as possible.

one of the features that I would like to have is the ability for rose to pick her own friends and have me (wood) have to deal with strange situations that presents. like, what if she finds master sealer kenneth really attractive and wants to hang out with him? what are my options? well, let her figure it out. maybe she has some questions about him and what he means by "..." or -- "why did he say ..." -- to which I can have answers, but ultimately I cannot decide for her what she wants.
  along with her being able to decide what she wants to do for herself (none of this I decide for her until she is old enough crap), when it comes to the area of affection, I cannot do anything that she does not want. she has to figure out what kinds of affection she wants and has to figure out how to make it reality. this can only really happen when she's young thoough, because as soon as she begins puberty, her symbolic brain starts to turn on, and now her desire is no longer her own, but a reflection of the society/system she's growing up in, and so therefore her desire is no longer pure. from that point on, she's on her own. I can hang out with her, but ultimately I can't really show too much affection anymore because
    the symbolic brain is interested in performing the actions necessary to feel good. the problem is that *she* has to figure out how to feel good *for herself*, and so any affection/gifting/(going to her dance recitals, etc) or whatever I'm doing can no longer be an excuse for her to have the symbolic conditions that she feels she needs/wants in order to feel good.
    the symbolic brain is antithesis to desire, and so therefore if she wants to actually be anatau, she can only use her conceptual mind -- which makes her a bit *stupid* in apearance to many others that are using conditions to increase their intellect. if she really wants what she wants, she can always get it -- regardless of her symbolic conditions, and that's most important to figure out. nobody can teach anyone that this is possible, and is only attainable through experience/failures. she's got to fail a few times at the stuff she *thinks* she wants (like for example to be the *most* beautiful/smartest/whatever) -- because all of that is comparative (2nd ray), and pure-desire (anatau) doesn't perceive that. she just finds a way to get the next thing she wants.
  therefore, in the early stages, that is, until her symbolic brain activates, she has to be able to tell wood what affection that she wants. after that, I can only be in conversation, and cannot meaningfully interact with her physically (else she stays attached and comes to depend on me -- instead of her own desire/willpower)
over the next few days, I'll try and figure out how to make this anatau daughter playable in the game. bye for now :)

### 2023-09-28 18:19 - how I play this game in real-life

pretend for a moment that I'm wood and I find myself in the opening scene with the keys, flower and map. it's interesting that with 5yo, we're not able to go out to the map, forcing us to spend all of the time at home.
  first of all let me explain that this game is now having a real-time "now" -- meaning that the day progresses in real time until I have to make a decision, when time stops while the game is waiting for my decision.
I walk in and see her playing blocks on the ground. I go and sit down with her. eventally conversation starts, and gives an opportunity for us to move away from the blocks. if I skip all of the conversation options that allow us to go into other subjects (ie +EMO), we can either keep playing blocks, or talk about something relating to both blocks and also life (+INT,+Perception,+Mind). eventually, she'll get bored and want to stop playing with blocks and start interacting physically with me (which is why I sat on the floor, to make myself accessable). when that happens, she's fully in charge of the game that she wants to play, and that can range from anything from tickle or whatever (I want you to touch me), to play hide and seek (I have something I want to show you, but only when you find me -- cause I'm not yet ready to ask for it directly).

year (or a year) pass with that kind of interactoion and now (when she's 6), ned has come over to tell me the town is wanting to see m5 and my daughter, so the diner has everything for free). we're strongly encouraged to begin to start mixing in other people into her experience. from the time of 6-11 (just as an example), she's beginning to learn relational aspect of things (2nd ray perception), and so she's exposed to asbel and his stories which will begin her symbolic form of perception.
  for m5 personally, I find this period of life to be quite important and formative because she's beginning to make a lot of relations in her mind (some of which feel good, and some don't) about different symbolic narrative things. this is essentially when she decides she wants to be a baby machine, a good housewife, or some other thing (good at music/arts (emotional/conceptual) or dance/action/warrior (physical)). the direction of those interests will largely be a reflection of the symbolic narrative she's fed (asbel's stories) -- so let's say that asbel has a particular distaste for women, he'll tell stories where the female protagonists suit his perception of women (they're useless/furnature told where to be and how to act,-- or perhaps he finds them as noble creatures where knights will murder and betray their friends for their physical beauty,-- etc.)
  as a result, I (m5 personally) don't like to introduce narrative into their perception at this period of time, because narrative is a duality system (good/bad with each character having their faults and things that can be praised/idealised/worshipped), and doesn't accurately represent the highest form of 2nd ray perspective (pure-desire).
  what narrative does do though, is to teach intellect and conditional things. narrative is a lot like programming, because there are specific sequences that one must perform in order to get the desired thing at the end (slay the dragon, get the princess, etc) -- and often times those narrative steps are quite vague (woo the princess) which in real-life can have a lot of nuance and implementation difficulties to them.
    as an example, if I want to "woo the princess" -- I need to have a sufficient amount of charisma, self-confidence, something she wants to actually listen to, and most importantly something that she wants. therefore, the prospect of "wooing" som5one, is not so much about having a good product (most chinese products are crap), but instead about painting the illusion that the product (myself) is considerably better than it really is. the way that that illusion is done is *relationally*. kenny is A, and A has done (or can do) B, and everyone loves someone that has done (or can do) B, so you should be so lucky to get me because you want B (or someone that can do B).
      I've noticed that for most women, they often times wait until the only thing left for them is to find a way to make them feel good physically (not conceptually/emotionally), and so therefore anyone that can give them what they want (to feel better physically), is all they're looking for -- so really "wooing" (in the spanish way) and this sense, is just a message to her that she'll feel really good physically (usually a pretty big let-down though later, though).
    therefore, in order to actually be able to accomplish the symbolic step that the narrative is telling me to do (woo the princess), there are actually quite a few prerequisites that are necessary for me to accomplish before I can actually perform the symbolic action.
      as an example, it takes quite a while to have self-confidence when talking about anything. one major thing about that is to give up the need to be right. if I have to be right, then I'm not very self-confident -- because it's clear that I don't actually know what I'm talking about; however, if I know what I'm talking about, I don't have to be right, cause I already am (eg. self-confidence).
      or, let's say that I want to have the required charisma that is necessary for her to actually like me -- well, I can feign charisma, but charisma comes from actually liking myself, so until I actually like myself, I won't really have any charisma. I can pretend to be something bigger than I am, to puff up my status or whatever -- but ultimately I know that I'm not really what I say I am, and so I'm a fraud -- which, most people don't like frauds, and so therefore most people who are frauds don't like theirselves. their whole entire aura of charisma is a big show.
        coincidentally, I must interject here that our bodies project our conceptual framework out radial around us (the aura), and depending on how I conceptually see the world, that is the lens/mood that I will be looking out of, *and* also the lens that everyone will be seeing my physical body through.
  ---
  instead of presenting her (my daughter) with narrative, I would much prefer that she's becoming more and more aware of how she feels about everything in the world, and how that array of feelings attracts my reality.
    as an example, let's say that someone is annoying and so I have to figure out how to no longer let that person be annoying anymore, so that I can see the butterfly dancing on the window, reminding me to tell her the "dancing butterfly feet" story while she's playing blocks (giving her desire for more stamina)

during the period of 6-11 (I'm going to break her life into 3 sections), she's mainly building up desire for a lot of different things that she'll *naturally* begin to attract all by herself as she begins puberty (I'm going to call this phase 12-17), because it's at that time when she begins to start to realise that she can get these (symbolic) things that she wants, by performing the actions that she's told to perform, instead of just *feeling* like she wants it (and it turns into a reality -- cause that's what I/wood does).
  the first phase of her life (0-5), she wants, and she gets. whatever she wants she feels like it's a reality and she gets it (else she crys, as that seems to help speed up manifestation speed). the second phase (6-11), she's now beginning 2nd ray perception, and starting to connect a lot of things she sees to things that she wants. when she was younger, the difficulty was the interface to her body, so walking was not a problem of desire but a mechanical problem, however now, the things that she wants are nearly all outside of herself, so the interface starts to become a conceptual/symbolic one (depending on how she's given the example -- narrative produces symbolic awareness, and feeling-relational produces an emotional awareness). finally the final phase is 12-18 where now she's finally got the body that (hopefully) is beautiful enough to attract what she wants physically, and her symbolic (2nd ray) mind is now active enough to tell her how she feels (or should feel) about different things in her world, so now it's time for her to get out there and start making her reality what she wants it to be. (obviously each girl is different when exactly those periods begin and end)

### 2023-09-28 20:16 - master sealer kenneth

just as mars/adam is a reflection of anatau, he has to discover his inner anatau for himself. he's also imprisioned by his own narative and the narrative of asbel (if he associates with him). kenneth is pure-desire and take on the form of cupid/eros as soon as he discovers his inner anatau. this journey is essentially the distance between going from 3rd ray (pure-symbol/action) up to the very hight of 2nd ray: pure-desire. the way that this is accomplished is to no longer perceive the action or the symbols present in the equation anymore (ie the narrative), and instead *only* perceive how he feels and what he wants. each interaction with another asbel will amplify asbel's narrative again (he's usually trying to prove himself), and so kenneth will consistently fall into the trap of thinking that asbel's narrative is important (or very not important), and that the way to get to/(away from) it is through perception/performance of action (in a symbolic way) which *means* the thing to asbel.
  as an example, if asbel is really into romance, he thinks that there is this fantastic girl out there somewhere that will finally complete him and he can *finally* live happily ever after. the problem with this is that asbel is not actually looking for gweneth -- but for himself. his completion is his own work, and nobody (no matter how significant or meaningful she is), can actually complete him other than himself -- so for kenneth, he has to treat asbel like the gweneth that he wants to accomplish/rescue/woo -- and that's a difficulty for kenneth, because kenneth isn't gweneth and cannot ever be the gweneth that asbel has built up in his narrative/imagination. instead, kenneth has to treat asbel as if asbel is the gweneth that he's looking for -- and usually that's nothing more than a pleasure-hole.
    asbel now (having been imaged as the thing he's looking for (gweneth)) then goes out and tries to perform the action steps required in order to get what he's looking for (a pleasure-hole), and then fails miserably at it, so he has to come back to kenneth again in order to feel like he's getting closer to beholding himself/gweneth again. he keeps looking for himself, but nobody is like him, so he's unfindable. yet if he identifies himself (and the thing outside of himself he wants) as a pleasure-hole, then he can find it if he performs the socially acceptable steps to get the pleasure-hole (ie, romance/narrative)
  as another example, let's say that asbel is into something technical instead and wants to create a technical reality (also a symbolic desire) -- well then this too is a case wher asbel has to *become* the thing he wants to create.
    on this subject, I've not seen too many asbels like this, apart from tesla and myself (though I could be wrong about this), and have more often seen this happening for mars/kenneth instead.
  so, for example let's say that asbel wants to create a network in which everyone is connected and asbel has access to everyone's most intimate communications -- well then, in order for it to becom5 a reality, he has to be able to become a person that gives access to everyone's personal details. or, let's say he wants to make a software project or framework that allows (or restricts) the creative using the framework to have certain features (like say the ability to introspect anything) or a really intuitive interface,-- then mars/kenneth has to be able to allow anyone to introspect himself and also become himself intuitive in a way that others find him easy to manipulate and interact with.
  asbel and kenneth will go back and fourth endlessly building on each others' symbolic narrative trying to create the thing they want outside of theirselves, only it never fully happens, because all creativity/romance is a reflection of theirselves (and what their looking for, for *theirselves*).

#### 2023-09-28 20:51 - an example: dudly-do-right

dudly thought that he wanted queen elizabeth -- and he would have eventually got her if he could have understood what it was to *actually* be cupid/pure-desire (a reflection of elizabeth)
  which is, to understand that all things he wants are not outside of himself, but himself incarnate. so, he'll get the thing when he's already a reflection of it (ie, when he is like she is).
dudly eventually realised that he didn't *really* want to be like queen elizabeth, so he passed on her -- which is why we end up with the story of valentine (cupid) and proteus, where he gives silvia/silver/diana (the reflector) over to the actor (proteus). he finally says, "you (vere/proteus) go ahead and have her -- because I thought (originally) that I wanted to have her, but I realised instead, she was just showing me how I want to be." -- and so he did. he started to reflect situations and circumstances back to those around him in the form of plays and theatre performance. he gave them what they wanted to have, and the symbolic action-plan to get what they wanted, as well.

### 2023-09-29 20:13 - rethinking the interactions

one of the things that I find very interesting is how different the game is to how I perceive reality. in the process of figuring out how I would emulate my perception of reality inside the game, I've also come up with new ones (see [game-dialoge](/ideas/game-dialogue.md)). after writing that just now, it impressed upon me the idea of how would I do all of the interactions in volcano-princess, leaving the dialoge and narrative completely intact.
  I must say that the narrative strongly influences the interaction possible, because in a story, there's a lot of stuff I don't know (lore, character background, etc) -- and so the interactions that I have regarding contextual/narrative things dramatically decreases the generality of my abstractions. as an example, asking how to get to the store, is not the same process as blending flavours or ideas. some interactions are more like flavours, and other interactions are symbolic and rule based, some conditional, and some essential/essencial.
so for example, in the case of the dialogue, those are some good ideas, but what I was working on earlier was the idea of playing and doing things in the process of now (now-procsss).
  as an example, all time is passing at some speed (slow, med, fast) and I see something in the scenery, and that reminds the character of something, like say I notice something that looks like a crocodile -- and that inspires me to say (game-dialogue) "crocodiles are ferocious creatures" "crocodiles have been around a long time" "crocodiles come out of the egg fully formed and ready to go, when hatched".
